[DOCS] Add Information for Adding Custom Parameters to Custom Expectations (#8172)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/docusaurus/docs/guides/expectations/creating_custom_expectations/add_custom_parameters.md

title: 'Add custom parameters to Custom Expectations'
id: add_custom_parameters
description: Add custom parameters to Custom Expectations.
---

Using custom parameters in your Custom Expectations can help you create powerful, business-specific validations and help you optimize your Great Expectations (GX) workflows. Custom parameters should be implemented when you have data dependencies that can’t or shouldn’t be hardcoded. The method of implementing custom parameters is specific to the Custom Expectation class being extended.

## Implementation

All Custom Expectations include a `success_keys` attribute that is a tuple of strings. The tuple items are the names of the parameters which are available during the evaluation of your Custom Expectation. For example, the `success_keys` attribute for the ColumnPairMapExpectation appears similar to the following example:

```python
success_keys = (
   "column_A",
   "column_B",
   "mostly",
)
```
The tuple in the example includes the two columns being evaluated and the `mostly` parameter. These parameters are passed as a part of your ExpectationConfiguration and are available to the Expectation `_validate` method.

## Use case

> In this use case, a `condition_value_keys` tuple and a `condition_domain_keys` tuple are added to ColumnPairMapMetrics, MulticolumnMapMetrics, and ColumnMapMetrics. The `condition_value_keys` tuple supplies the arguments needed to compute your Metric, and the `condition_domain_keys` tuple defines the domain on which the Metric operates.

Reviewer: All parameters being passed to a metric for use in value or domain keys also must be passed as success_keys under the Expectation class.

Author: @austiezr I have made an attempt to add the information you requested. Please review.

This is how the tuples appear in the MulticolumnMapMetrics Metric:

```python
condition_domain_keys = (
   "batch_id",       
   "table",       
   "column_list",       
   "row_condition",       
   "condition_parser",       
   "ignore_row_if",   
)   
condition_value_keys = ("sum_total",)

> ColumnAggregateMetrics, TableMetrics, and QueryMetrics can similarly define a value_keys tuple or a domain_keys tuple:

Reviewer: This shouldn't be in a code-block, but is a reference to the value_keys & domain_keys below-- just noticed it's also like this in the blog. Whoops!

Author: @austiezr sorry, it's not clear what edit is recommended here. Can you clarify the change you're recommending?

Reviewer: This block should be text, outside of the code block.

value_keys = ("column",)
domain_keys = ("query",)

> ```

Reviewer: Some ambiguity here -- condition_domain_keys & condition_value_keys are utilized in all *MapMetrics (ColumnMap, ColumnPairMap, and MultiColumnMap)

ColumnAggregate, Batch (formerly Table), and Query all use value_keys & domain_keys instead.

Author: @austiezr is there a recommended edit here? It's not clear what change is required.

```python
classColumnValuesBetween(ColumnMapMetricProvider):   
condition_metric_name = "column_values.between"   
condition_value_keys = (       
   "min_value",       
   "max_value",       
   "strict_min",       
   "strict_max",       
   "parse_strings_as_datetimes",
   "allow_cross_type_comparisons",
)
@column_condition_partial(engine=PandasExecutionEngine)   
def_pandas(       
   cls,       
   column,       
   min_value=None,       
   max_value=None,       
   strict_min=None,       
   strict_max=None,       
   parse_strings_as_datetimes: bool = False,
   allow_cross_type_comparisons=None,       
   **kwargs   
):
```
To view the full code that you would use to pass custom parameters in a Custom Expectation, see [expect_column_values_to_be_lat_lon_coordinates_in_range_of_given_point.py](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/blob/develop/contrib/great_expectations_geospatial_expectations/great_expectations_geospatial_expectations/expectations/expect_column_values_to_be_lat_lon_coordinates_in_range_of_given_point.py).

## kwarg-based access

> GX recommends using custom parameters to create validations and optimize workflows. However, you can also use `kwarg` syntax to define Metrics for your Expectations. An example `kwarg` implementation is provided in [expect_column_values_to_be_lat_lon_coordinates_in_range_of_given_point.py](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/blob/develop/contrib/great_expectations_geospatial_expectations/great_expectations_geospatial_expectations/expectations/expect_column_values_to_be_lat_lon_coordinates_in_range_of_given_point.py).

Reviewer: While this totally works, it's important to note that all these kwargs still need to be set in a value_keys tuple before being accessible through kwargs.

Author: @austiezr I made an attempt to add the information you requested. Please review.

| ColumnMapExpectation              | See [ColumnMapExpectation](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/reference/api/expectations/expectation/ColumnMapExpectation_class)              |
| RegexBasedColumnMapExpectation    | See [RegexBasedColumnMapExpectation](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/reference/api/expectations/regex_based_column_map_expectation/RegexBasedColumnMapExpectation_class)              |
| SetBasedColumnMapExpectation      | See [SetBasedColumnMapExpectation](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/reference/api/expectations/set_based_column_map_expectation/SetBasedColumnMapExpectation_class)              |
| ColumnPairMapExpectation          | See [ColumnPairMapExpectation](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/reference/api/expectations/expectation/ColumnPairMapExpectation_class)              |
| MulticolumnMapExpectation         | See [MulticolumnMapExpectation](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/reference/api/expectations/expectation/MulticolumnMapExpectation_class)              |

> | QueryExpectation                  |  See [QueryExpectation](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/reference/api/expectations/expectation/QueryExpectation_class)              |

Reviewer: Technically *any* parameters are allowed, as they're custom and created by the users. Are these intended to be the default parameters available?

Author: @austiezr Abe asked that we provide a list of allowable parameters. It seemed best to direct users to the relevant documentation. Should the table be removed a statement similar to the following be added:

_You can use any parameter in an Expectation class_.

Please confirm what should be provided in this section.

Reviewer: I'm thinking this may be better phrased as "default parameters" or "available default parameters" rather than "allowable parameters"?

---
sidebar_label: 'Add custom parameters to Custom Expectations'
title: 'Add custom parameters to Custom Expectations'
id: add_custom_parameters
description: Add custom parameters to Custom Expectations.
---

> Use custom parameters in your Custom Expectations when you have data dependencies that can’t or shouldn’t be hardcoded. The Custom Expectation class determines how you implement custom parameters.
> 
> Using custom parameters in your Custom Expectations can help you create powerful, business-specific validations and help you optimize your Great Expectations (GX) workflows.

Reviewer 2: I would flip the order of these paragraphs; the second one feels like more of an opener.

```suggestion
Using custom parameters in your Custom Expectations can help you create powerful, business-specific validations and help you optimize your Great Expectations (GX) workflows. Custom parameters should be implemented when you have data dependencies that can’t or shouldn’t be hardcoded. The method of implementing custom parameters is specific to the Custom Expectation class being extended.
```

...I may have adjusted the wording a little bit, too.

```python
success_keys = (
   "column_A",
   "column_B",
   "mostly",
)
```
The tuple in the example includes the two columns being evaluated and the `mostly` parameter. These parameters are passed as a part of your ExpectationConfiguration and are available to the Expectation `_validate` method.

## Use case

In this use case, a `condition_value_keys` tuple and a `condition_domain_keys` tuple are added to ColumnPairMapMetrics, MulticolumnMapMetrics, and ColumnMapMetrics. The `condition_value_keys` tuple supplies the arguments needed to compute your Metric, and the `condition_domain_keys` tuple defines the domain on which the Metric operates.

All parameters being passed to a Metric for use in value or domain keys must also be passed as success_keys in the Expectation class.

This is how the tuples appear in the MulticolumnMapMetrics Metric:

```python
condition_domain_keys = (
   "batch_id",       
   "table",       
   "column_list",       
   "row_condition",       
   "condition_parser",       
   "ignore_row_if",   
)   

> condition_value_keys = ("sum_total",)

Reviewer: This is a single code block for MulticolumnMapMetrics.

ColumnAggregateMetrics, TableMetrics, and QueryMetrics can similarly define a value_keys tuple or a domain_keys tuple:

value_keys = ("column",)

> domain_keys = ("query",)

Reviewer: This is a new code block for ColumnAggregate/Batch/Query metrics

   allow_cross_type_comparisons=None,       
   **kwargs   
):
```
To view the full code that you would use to pass custom parameters in a Custom Expectation, see [expect_column_values_to_be_lat_lon_coordinates_in_range_of_given_point.py](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/blob/develop/contrib/great_expectations_geospatial_expectations/great_expectations_geospatial_expectations/expectations/expect_column_values_to_be_lat_lon_coordinates_in_range_of_given_point.py).

## kwarg-based access

GX recommends using custom parameters to create validations and optimize workflows. However, you can also use `kwarg` syntax to define Metrics for your Expectations. An example `kwarg` implementation is provided in [expect_column_values_to_be_lat_lon_coordinates_in_range_of_given_point.py](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/blob/develop/contrib/great_expectations_geospatial_expectations/great_expectations_geospatial_expectations/expectations/expect_column_values_to_be_lat_lon_coordinates_in_range_of_given_point.py).

To use `kwarg` syntax to define Metrics for your Expectations, you need to set the `kwargs` with a value_keys tuple first.

> ## Allowable parameters

Author: ```suggestion
## Default parameters
```

> The following table lists the allowable parameters that are available for each Expectation class.

Author: ```suggestion
The following table lists the default parameters that are available for each Expectation class.
```

> | Expectation class                 | Allowable parameters           |

Author: ```suggestion
| Expectation class                 | Default parameters           |
```
